author=udo.schroeter@gmail.com

#Cultures+

##Authoritarian

People living in authoritarian societies are required to blindly follow all the rules and reflexively obey all persons of
authority. Typical authoritatian countries are based on some form of despotism or dictatorship, but smaller authoritarian
groups can also be imbedded in other cultures.

Characters with an authoritarian background receive a bonus of 2 on all skill rolls for acitivities that are tightly supervised
by experts or superiors. They also receive a bonus of 2 on all skill checks dealing with persons of authority, for example
the Diplomacy and Bureaucracy skills.

##Capitalism

Societies based on strict capitalism see the free market as the sole regulating force for every aspect of life. 
Denizens living under these conditions tend to be divided into three groups, with the aristocracy at the top being the
ruling elite that is beyond the normal laws of the land, then a thin and mobile layer of the middle classes, followed
by a huge number of lower class people who rarely qualify for full citizen rights.

Characters with a capitalistic background get a bonus of 2 on all skill rolls dealing with financials.

##Corruption

Some cultures have centered all their endeavors on maintaining an intricate mesh of arbitrary bureaucratic rules and the methods
of subverting them. Corrupt societies are unsafe and unpredictable with citizens of all classes, since backstabbing is a
national pastime (sometimes literally).

Characters coming from a corrupt society gain the Bureaucracy skill with a rating of 3.

##Libertarian

Cultures based on the freedom and free expression of individuals are rare and usually prone to degradation over time.
Emphasis on free culture often does not come in the form of a state philosophy, but the belief system of a sub group or
sub culture.

Characters with a libertarian background receive an extra skill with a rating of 3 at character creation.

##Rationalism

Rational cultures strive to build an ethically sound framework wherein their citizens can prosper. Science and knowledge
are the foremost virtues of this culture, which at its core believes that the best decisions are always backed by 
relevant data.

Characters coming from a rational background get the Basic Knowledge skill with a rating of 3 at character creation.
They also receive a bonus of 1 on their INT attribute.

##Theocracy

In theocratic cultures, power is exerted by religious lore and the people representing it. Theocracy can come in form of
entire states or certain sub cultures. Not only does this value system require unquestioning belief in the religion's tenets,
it also mandates absolute obedience in the face of religious authorities.

Characters with a theocratic background receive the Religion skill at a rating of 3, representing their cultural knowledge.
They also get a bonus of 2 on all skill rolls when interacting with religious people.

##Traditional

The character comes from a society where tradition is valued above all else. Usually, this involves tight integration with
an authoritarian religious tradition or a rigid social policy. Traditional societies tend to be ruled by aristocrats, or
members of a leadership group.

Characters with a traditional background receive a bonus of 2 on all skill checks that involve routine work or events that
have been practiced a lot. They also receive a bonus of 2 on all skill checks dealing with historical facts.

