author=udo.schroeter@gmail.com

#Tech Levels+

##1 - Abject Ignorance

Societies without any knowledge or technology of their own are rare and transient. They might be
a group of people who originated from another tech level but had their memories erased, or otherwise
lost all capabilities. Even primitive hand tools are a challenge for them.

Characters with a level 1 background receive a +1 CON and STR bonus.

##2 - Primitive

Societies with a primitive technological level have mastered some basic survival competence and
have gained knowledge that allows them to exploit their environment for food and resources. Primitive
cultures build tools, and sometimes even ornamental items such as jewelry. 

Characters with a primitive background gain the Outdoor Survival skill with a rating of 3, and receive
a +1 DEX bonus.

##3 - Archaic

Archaic cultures are transitioning from primitive tools to large-scale agriculture. They tend to build
big permanent cities and works of art, and they dabble in basic scientific discovery. Often, archaic
cultures are politically intricate and can contribute to the formation of quasi-modern city states which
sometimes have advanced knowledge in certain fields of knowledge.

Characters with an archaic background gain the Animal Care skill with a rating of 3.

##4 - Agricultural

An agricultural society has mastered the skill of exploiting its natural resources, but has not yet access
to automation or advanced machinery. Generally, labor is done by hand. Nevertheless, advances in material
refinery and construction processes gives this society excellent tools and broad availability of luxury wares.

Characters with an agricultural background gain the Farming skill with a rating of 3.

##5 - Industrial

Typically with the advent of steam and electric power (as well as the pertinent scientific discoveries that
go along with them), the manufacture of goods becomes automated. Large scale material wealth becomes a global 
possibility. 

Characters with an industrial background gain the Diplomacy or Etiquette skill with a rating of 3.

##6 - Information Technology

At first an extension of automated mechanical systems, computers soon become a technological building block in
their own right. Information storage and processing devices make it possible to connect citizens globally with
each other. The ability to create and consume information expands radically, both on an individual as well as
a world wide scope. From this moment on, the power and capabilities of individual people will continue to
grow, encroaching into areas that had so far been reserved for powerful organizations.

Characters with a level 6 background gain the Information Systems skill with a rating of 4.

##7 - Fusion-Powered

Access to advanced energy harnessing devices such as nuclear fusion reactors liberates the world from natural
and artificial scarcities. For the first time, it becomes feasible to exploit the solar system for raw materials.
A level 7 society can also radically augment the population carrying capacity of their home planet, and it
gains the ability to willfully manipulate its natural environment on an unprecedented scale. Resourceful individuals
can now engage in activities that have before been the sole domain of entire countries.

Characters with a level 7 background gain the Information Systems skill with a rating of 2, and receive a +1 INT bonus.

##8 - Interplanetary

With the advent of advanced and automated manufacturing tools, interplanetary expansion becomes a feasible endeavor.
No longer content with remotely exploiting outer space for material resources, the citizens of a level 8 society
colonize whatever places they can reach. Advances is medical sciences at this level can allow for virtual
immortalization. 

Characters with a level 8 background gain the Information Systems skill with a rating of 1, and receive a +1 INT and CON bonus.

##9 - Interstellar

In order for interstellar travel to become feasible, radical scientific advances are required. This usually involves
the manipulation of spacetime to allow for faster-than-light transfer. Societies at this tech level are no longer
motivated by natural resources (which are abundant in the universe), but instead aim for achievements that are in
line with their ideology, such as engaging in exploration, travelling for religious purposes, politics, or simple curiosity.

Characters with a level 9 background gain a bonus of 1 on all skill rolls that depend on high technology, and receive a +1 INT and CON bonus.

##10 - Ascendant

Technological development is open-ended. At some point, a society will split up into a myriad of micro groups or
even individuals, each wielding the power and knowledge of an entire civilization, engaged in arcane quests and
pursuits that are beyond the understanding of lesser societies.

Characters with a level 10 background gain a bonus of 2 on all science-related skill rolls, and receive a +1 bonus to all their attributes.

