author=udo.schroeter@gmail.com

#Earning and Spending Experience Points

Experience points are used by the GM to reward player characters. How much XP a character gets over time is
for the GM to decide. Several models are thinkable. The simplest one would be to award a fixed amount of
points after a gaming session (for example 2 points per character). You can also make XP a function of time
played (for example giving them 0.5 points for every hour of gaming) or employ your own scheme that takes into
account how the characters did overcome specific challenges.

By spending these experience points (XP), the players can increase their characters' attributes, 
health status scores, and skill ratings during the character's lifetime. 
As it gets harder to progress further in an area, it costs more XP to do so. 

Take note of the original ratings a character had when it was created. 

##Raising Attributes and Status Scores
To raise an attribute or health status score by one over the original value, spend 3 XP. Every subsequent raise will cost 3 XP more than the last.

For example: a character starts out with 12 HP. It costs 3 XP to raise this to 13 HP, 6 more XP to raise it to 14, 9 more XP to raise it to 15, and so on.

    Raise  Cost  
      1st     3
      2nd     6
      3rd     9
      4th     12

##Raising a Skill Rating
To raise a skill rating by one over the original value, spend 1 XP. Every subsequent raise will cost 1 XP more than the last.

For example: a character starts out with an Initiative skill of 1. It costs 1 XP to raise this to 2, 2 more XP to raise it to 3, 3 more XP to raise it to 4, and so on.

    Raise  Cost  
      1st     1
      2nd     2
      3rd     3
      4th     4

##Acquiring a New Skill

Count the number of skills where the character currently has a rating of 1 or more, times two, this will be the cost of acquiring a new skill. 
Note that this cost does not apply when a character is being created, only when the character progresses later during the game this cost is applied.

##Optional Rule: Maxing Out

To balance the game and preserve the original strengths and weaknesses of the characters, the GM may decide to limit the number of times an attribute or skill can be raised to 4. 